# StaticAid

A [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) static site generator for archival description serialized in JSON, generated via the
[ArchivesSpace](http://archivesspace.org) REST API, or by other modular backends which can be added to the system.

## Quick Start

Install [git](https://git-scm.com/) and clone the repository.

    $ git clone git@github.com:helrond/staticAid.git

Install [Docker](https://store.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community) and build the image using `docker-compose`.

    $ cd staticAid
    $ docker-compose build -t staticaid .

Start the container.

    $ docker-compose up

The site will build, and the staticAid interface will then be available at http://localhost:4000 in your browser. Any changes to the templates in the `site/` directory or the python files in the `static_aid/` directory will result in a rebuild of the site or a reinstallation of the staticAid scripts, respectively.


## Usage

### Sample data

Three sample data sets are included in the `data/` directory. To use, unzip and place in `build/data` before building the site.

### Grunt Commands

You have three options for building the HTML site using Jekyll. In all cases, Jekyll will place the generated site
in `build/site/`.

#### Build without updating data

Running `grunt build` will build the site based on the data currently in the `build/data` directory.

#### Update data then build site

Running `grunt update` will fetch JSON for resource records, resource record trees and archival objects from ArchivesSpace
using `static_aid/getJson.py` and save it in your `build/data` directory, then will build the site based on that data.

**WARNING**: Depending on the size of your ArchivesSpace installation, it could take quite a while for this script to
loop through all resource records and components. Be patient!

#### Clean Build

By default, `grunt update` will only fetch JSON updated since the last time `static_aid/getJson.py` completed successfully.
At any point, you can run `grunt rebuild` to wipe out the existing data and build the site from scratch.

**WARNING**: Depending on the size of your ArchivesSpace installation, it could take quite a while for this script to
loop through all resource records and components. Be patient!

#### Starting the Local Server

To start a local server (useful for previewing the site), run `grunt serve`. You can then access the site by opening a
browser and pointing it to `http://localhost:4000`. To stop the server, use `ctrl + c`.

This server will use the HTML generated by the last build, so if you've made changes to any of your templates or data
you'll need to build the site in order to see those changes (see above).

### JSON-LD Structured Data

By default, StaticAid is set up to generate structured data in your HTML in the
form of JSON-LD objects, coded according to the conventions of schema.org. JSON-LD
is Google's recommended method of delivering structured data for its indexing algorithms.
(More information [here](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/intro-structured-data).)

Currently, JSON-LD objects are formed on three kinds of pages:

*   Main index page, describing the holding archive ([Schema](https://gist.github.com/scottythered/68750a6032d3e72fe0bcb83789b64b55))
*   Collection pages ([Schema](https://gist.github.com/scottythered/d79b8d63ca3a2da120f7efa3168ea8ac))
*   Persona and Corporate Agent detail pages ([Schemas](https://gist.github.com/scottythered/090b3d05495ae991d7779bf06d08781a))

Variables used in the JSON-LD objects (as well as a few others in building your site)
are stored in `local_settings.cfg`. If you don't want JSON-LD generated, you can
leave those variables undefined. The JSON-LD will be broken, but it will not affect
the display of the web pages.

### Auto Generating StaticAid Content via Cron Job

If you would like to auto-generate StaticAid content using a cron job (on OSX/Linux systems), you can
link one of the rebuild scripts to an appropriate cron job folder. To auto-generate full-page
content every day, you could do this:

    sudo ln -s scripts/static-aid-rebuild /etc/cron.daily/

or to auto-generate embedded content every week, you could do this:

    sudo ln -s scripts/static-aid-rebuild-embedded /etc/cron.weekly/

**NOTE:** it is important to softlink (`ln -s src dest`) instead of copying (`cp src dest`).

## Contributing

Pull requests accepted! Feel free to file issues on this repository as well.

## Authors

Hillel Arnold / @helrond  
Kevin Clair / @jackflaps  
Luke Scott / @v-lukes  
Erin O'Meara / @diplomaticaerin  
Scott Carlson / @scottythered  

## License

staticAid is released under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.md` for more information.
